nrf_security: Add Oberon PSA configurations in Kconfig (#11676)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/nrf_security/doc/driver_config.rst

If multiple drivers are enabled, the first ordered item in this table takes precedence for an enabled cryptographic feature, unless the driver does not enable or support it.

> The configuration granularity of the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` allows enabling or disabling of specific PSA APIs (such as psa_cipher_encrypt, psa_sign_hash), but not individual algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` allows enabling or disabling of specific PSA APIs (such as psa_cipher_encrypt, psa_sign_hash), but not individual algorithms.
```

It read weird to me. With the new phrasing the two sentences are more similar. It is not clear if it was intentional to communicate that they are different somehow by using different phrasing.

> The driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` allows higher configuration granularity, allowing you to enable or disable individual algorithms as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` allows finer configuration granularity, allowing you to enable or disable individual algorithms as well.
```
usually granularity uses the adjectives coarse, and fine. Higher is ambiguous.

> When multiple drivers are enabled and support the same cryptographic feature, the configuration tries to minimize the code size and, when possible, only include one implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When multiple drivers are enabled and support the same cryptographic feature, the configuration system tries to minimize the code size and, when possible, only include one implementation.
```

Also there is something off with the tenses.

AI gives this phrasing, in case you like it:

"When multiple drivers are enabled and support the same cryptographic feature, the configuration system attempts to minimize the code size by including only one implementation, whenever possible"

But it's not clear to me if those are the semantics you are trying to communicate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"When multiple enabled drivers supports the same cryptographic feature, the default behavior is to include only one implementation to minimize code size."
```

Author: I kind of combined these two suggestions in something new.

Cipher driver configurations
============================

> You can use the following table to check the cipher algorithm support of each driver:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cipher algorithm support for each driver:
```

It is obvious to the reader what the table can be used for I believe.

Author: I followed the previous phrasing here but I can just update this one, the tech writer will decide this in the end anyway.

+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| CBC no padding        | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| CBC PKCS#7 padding    | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| CFB                   | Not supported             | Not supported              |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| CTR                   | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| OFB                   | Supported                 | Not supported              |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| XTS                   | Not supported             | Not supported              |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| Stream cipher         | Supported                 | Supported                  |

> +-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+

Reviewer: If you have a tool for editing these tables please put a lot of room for new Cipher modes with long names so I don't have to manually extend the rows later.

If you are doing this manually nevermind.

The option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_USE_CC3XX_CIPHER_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for all supported algorithms.

The driver configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in `Cipher configurations`_.

> Key size configuration is supported as described in `AES key size configuration`_ , for all the supported algorithms expect the stream cipher..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key size configuration is supported as described in `AES key size configuration`_, for all the supported algorithms except the stream cipher.
```

Unless this whitespace is required?

Cipher driver configurations
============================

> Cipher algorithm support for each driver:

Reviewer 3: While I personally prefer your more straightforward way of introducing tables, it seems that 'the following table shows' is a standard stylistic choice throughout NCS. Can you apply these throughout, or would you like me to add a suggestion for each?

Key Derivation Function driver configurations
=============================================

> You can use the following table to check the Key Derivation Function (KDF) support of each driver:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key Derivation Function (KDF) support for each driver:
```

MAC driver configurations
=========================

> You can use the following table to check the MAC algorithm support of each driver:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MAC algorithm support for each driver:
```

+=======================+=========================================================+
| CCM                   | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_CCM`               |
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+

> | CCM star with no tag  | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_ALG_CCM_STAR_NO_TAG`          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CCM star with no tag  | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_CCM_STAR_NO_TAG`          |
```

AEAD driver configurations
==========================

You can use the following table to check the AEAD algorithm support of each driver:

+-----------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
| AEAD cipher           | nrf_cc3xx driver support  | nrf_oberon driver support |
+=======================+===========================+===========================+
| CCM                   | Supported                 | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
| GCM                   | Supported                 | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+
| ChaCha20-Poly1305     | Supported                 | Supported                 |

> +-----------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused.

Should we have an row for PSA_WANT_ALG_CCM_STAR_NO_TAG
?

https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-zephyr/pull/1227/files#diff-cd9667c11ba0af039229c5929087c5a03509d6b908b66e9eb04d2b7cea77d32dR449

Or maybe a note saying that this variant of the CCM algorithm it is not supported?

Author: You are right, I missed to add this. I will add the algorithm.

> The option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_USE_CC3XX_AEAD_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for all the supported algorithms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_USE_CC3XX_AEAD_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for all supported algorithms.
```

> The driver configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in `AEAD configurations`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in `AEAD configurations`_.
```

MAC driver configurations
=========================

MAC algorithm support for each driver:

+----------------+--------------------------+----------------------------+
| MAC cipher     | nrf_cc3xx driver support | nrf_oberon driver support  |
+================+==========================+============================+
| CMAC           | Supported                | Supported                  |
+----------------+--------------------------+----------------------------+
| HMAC           | Supported                | Supported                  |
+----------------+--------------------------+----------------------------+

> The option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_USE_CC3XX_MAC_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for all supported algorithms.

Reviewer 4: Does it affect the rendering?
I think one newline is enough, but maybe 2 is sometimes used to make the source easier to read

> The option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_USE_CC3XX_MAC_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for all supported algorithms.

Reviewer 3: As long as it doesn't mess up the render, I'm not bothered.

ECC driver configurations
=========================

You can use the following table to check the ECC algorithm support of each driver:

+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| ECC algorithm         | nrf_cc3xx driver support  | nrf_oberon driver support  |
+=======================+===========================+============================+
| ECDH                  | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| ECDSA                 | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| ECDSA (deterministic) | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+

> The option :kconfig:option:`PSA_USE_CC3XX_SIGNATURE_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for the ECDSA and ECDSA deterministic algorithms.

Reviewer 2: The term "SIGNATURE_DRIVER" is a bit vague and would be applicable to RSA algorithms as well. Intentional?

ECC driver configurations
=========================

> Use the following table to check the ECC algorithm support of each driver:

Reviewer 3: Think we should follow the same form for these as well. 'The following table shows ECC algorithim support of each driver'...

=========================

You can use the following table to check the RSA algorithm support of each driver:

+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| RSA algorithms        | nrf_cc3xx driver support  | nrf_oberon driver support  |
+=======================+===========================+============================+
| RSA OAEP              | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 crypt | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 sign  | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| RSA PSS               | Not supported             | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+

The option :kconfig:option:`PSA_USE_CC3XX_SIGNATURE_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for the RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 signing algorithm.

> The option :kconfig:option:`PSA_USE_CC3XX_ASYMMETRIC_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for RSA PKCS#1 v1.5  and RSA OAEP encryption.

Reviewer: Our docs should correspond to the PSA Crypto docs.

Also, it is anomalous for most chapters to describe one option, and this chapter to describe to options.

If we align to the PSA Crypto docs the chapters will be called "Asymmetric signature", and "Asymmetric encryption" and have one Kconfig option each.

This is a pre-existing problem so we can create a task for this instead of fixing it here if you prefer.

Author: I fully agree with this statement and I will create a task for this. I noticed that as well but I didn't want to completely rewrite the documentation since this will be a separate task altogether indeed. 
See: NCSDK-22757

Reviewer: Thank you very much

> The driver configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in  `RSA configurations`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in  `RSA configurations`_.
```

RSA driver configurations
=========================

You can use the following table to check the RSA algorithm support of each driver:

+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| RSA algorithms        | nrf_cc3xx driver support  | nrf_oberon driver support  |
+=======================+===========================+============================+
| RSA OAEP              | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 crypt | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 sign  | Supported                 | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+
| RSA PSS               | Not supported             | Supported                  |
+-----------------------+---------------------------+----------------------------+

> The option :kconfig:option:`PSA_USE_CC3XX_SIGNATURE_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for the RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 signing algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_USE_CC3XX_SIGNATURE_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for the RSA PKCS#1 v1.5 signing algorithm.
```

Ignore if this is a nit.

Reviewer: (could possibly cause a CI issue)

Author: Interesting that the doc build didn't fail before but I will append CONFIG to all the symbols in the doc file, thanks

+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
| Hash algorithm        | Configuration option                              |
+=======================+===================================================+

> | SHA-1 (unsafe)        | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_SHA_1`       |

Reviewer 2: Can we use "weak" instead of "unsafe"? Mbed TLS has that as an established term

Author: Sure, that's a valid point, especially since it's followed by NIST.

> You can use the following PSA driver-specific configurations for fine-grained control over which drivers provide password-authenticated key agreement support.

Reviewer: Forgot to rephrase this.

Author: I will update.

Key size configurations
***********************

:ref:`nrf_security` supports key size configuration options for AES and RSA keys.

AES key size configuration
==========================

+--------------+---------------------------------------------+
| AES key size | Configuration option                        |
+==============+=============================================+
| 128 bits     | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_AES_KEY_SIZE_128` |
+--------------+---------------------------------------------+
| 192 bits     | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_AES_KEY_SIZE_192` |
+--------------+---------------------------------------------+
| 256 bits     | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_AES_KEY_SIZE_256` |
+--------------+---------------------------------------------+

.. note::
   * All AES key size configurations are introduced by :ref:`nrf_security` and are not described by the PSA Crypto specification.

RSA key size configuration
==========================

+--------------+----------------------------------------------+
| RSA key size | Configuration option                         |

> +==============+==============================================+

Author: I am OK to include these with a prompt and mention these as unsafe in both the documentation and inside the Kconfig.

You can use the following PSA driver-specific configurations for fine-grained control over which drivers provide password-authenticated key agreement support.

+-----------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+
| PAKE algorithm        | nrf_cc3xx driver support | nrf_oberon driver support |
+=======================+==========================+===========================+
| EC J-PAKE             | Not supported            | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+
| SPAKE2+               | Not supported            | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+
| SRP                   | Not supported            | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+

> The driver configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in  `Password-authenticated key agreement configurations`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in  `Password-authenticated key agreement configurations`_.
```

Key size configurations
***********************

> We support key size configuration options for AES and RSA keys.

Reviewer 3: Refer to the product or module instead of using 'we'.

Oberson PSA supports?

Author: I will write nrf_security, I think that it fits better since it includes the Oberon PSA core.

AES key size configuration
==========================

+--------------+---------------------------------------------+
| AES key size | Configuration option                        |
+==============+=============================================+
| 128 bits     | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_AES_KEY_SIZE_128` |
+--------------+---------------------------------------------+
| 192 bits     | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_AES_KEY_SIZE_192` |
+--------------+---------------------------------------------+
| 256 bits     | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_AES_KEY_SIZE_256` |
+--------------+---------------------------------------------+

.. note::

>    * All the AES key size configurations are introduced by :ref:`nrf_security` and are not described by the PSA Crypto specification.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * All AES key size configurations are introduced by :ref:`nrf_security` and are not described by the PSA Crypto specification.
```

RSA key size configuration
==========================

+--------------+----------------------------------------------+
| RSA key size | Configuration option                         |
+==============+==============================================+
| 1024 bits    | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_1024` |
+--------------+----------------------------------------------+
| 2048 bits    | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_2048` |
+--------------+----------------------------------------------+
| 3072 bits    | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_3072` |
+--------------+----------------------------------------------+
| 4096 bits    | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_4096` |
+--------------+----------------------------------------------+
| 6144 bits    | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_6144` |
+--------------+----------------------------------------------+
| 8192 bits    | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_8192` |
+--------------+----------------------------------------------+

.. note::

>    * All the RSA key size configurations are introduced by :ref:`nrf_security` and are not described by the PSA Crypto specification.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * All RSA key size configurations are introduced by :ref:`nrf_security` and are not described by the PSA Crypto specification.
```

AES key size configuration
==========================

+--------------+---------------------------------------------+
| AES key size | Configuration option                        |
+==============+=============================================+
| 128 bits     | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_AES_KEY_SIZE_128` |
+--------------+---------------------------------------------+
| 192 bits     | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_AES_KEY_SIZE_192` |
+--------------+---------------------------------------------+
| 256 bits     | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_AES_KEY_SIZE_256` |
+--------------+---------------------------------------------+

.. note::
   * All AES key size configurations are introduced by :ref:`nrf_security` and are not described by the PSA Crypto specification.

RSA key size configuration
==========================

+--------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| RSA key size       | Configuration option                         |
+====================+==============================================+
| 1024 bits          | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_1024` |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------+

> | 1536 bits          | :kconfig:option:`PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_2048` |

Author: thanks, will do :)

Hash driver configurations
==========================

> You can use the following table to check the Hash algorithm support of each driver:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the following table to check the Hash algorithm support of each driver:
```

Please apply this change to other instances of this, where we changed 'you can use the following configurations' to 'you can check the table'.

Reviewer 4: Search-replaced "You can use" with "Use" in the file

| SHA-224               | Supported                  | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+----------------------------+---------------------------+
| SHA-256               | Supported                  | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+----------------------------+---------------------------+
| SHA-384               | Not supported              | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+----------------------------+---------------------------+
| SHA-512               | Not supported              | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+----------------------------+---------------------------+
| MD5 (weak)            | Not supported              | Not supported             |
+-----------------------+----------------------------+---------------------------+
| RIPEMD160             | Not supported              | Not supported             |
+-----------------------+----------------------------+---------------------------+

The option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_USE_CC3XX_HASH_DRIVER` enables the driver :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_cc3xx` for all the supported algorithms.

> The driver configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in  `HASH configurations`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in  `HASH configurations`_.
```

Reviewer 4: Search-replaced "The driver configuration" with "The configuration" in the file

Password-authenticated key agreement driver configurations
==========================================================

You can use the following table to check the PAKE algorithm support of each driver:

+-----------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+
| PAKE algorithm        | nrf_cc3xx driver support | nrf_oberon driver support |
+=======================+==========================+===========================+
| EC J-PAKE             | Not supported            | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+
| SPAKE2+               | Not supported            | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+
| SRP                   | Not supported            | Supported                 |
+-----------------------+--------------------------+---------------------------+

> Configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user enabled algorithms in  `Password-authenticated key agreement configurations`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configuration of the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers_oberon` driver is automatically generated based on the user-enabled algorithms in  `Password-authenticated key agreement configurations`_.
```

+====================+=====================================================+
| 1024 bits          | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_1024` |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| 1536 bits          | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_1536` |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| 2048 bits          | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_2048` |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| 3072 bits          | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_3072` |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| 4096 bits          | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_4096` |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| 6144 bits          | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_6144` |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| 8192 bits          | :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_RSA_KEY_SIZE_8192` |
+--------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

.. note::

>    * All RSA key size configurations are introduced by :ref:`nrf_security` and are not described by the PSA Crypto specification.

Reviewer 3: I don't remember if it was in reference to this or another PR, but I checked this formatting with Bartek. He said that notes should have bullet points only if there are multiple items in the list.

Please remove bullet points for notes with only one item.
